# Data-Science-Project


## Basic Info
The project title: World Contraceptive Use in 2021
Members Information:
Kim Starkweather, kim.starkweather@utah.edu, u1095818
Kelsey Nicholson, u1315045@utah.edu, u1315045
Teerah Lopez, teerah.lopez@utah.edu u6001877
Project description:
## Background and Motivation
From a compilation of contraceptive statistics were compiled by the Guttmacher Institute said, “Contraceptive use among women who were sexually active and not seeking pregnancy was lowest among 15–24-year-olds (83%) and highest among 25–34-year-olds (91%).” Being women, while also being at reproductive age as well at this point in time being in college, it sparked our interest and thought it would be helpful information to retreive. From the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), we know that 14% of women between the ages of 15-49 are using the pill as a contraceptive. This sparked our curiosity in learning about statistics for other forms of contraceptives. All three of us also have a health education background, and are currently working in healthcare. We collectively agreed that in wanting to learn more about forms of contraceptives, we became particularly intrigued by contraceptive use on a global stance that would be even more influential to our education.
Access to contraceptives became a topic among us, in discussing these statistics previously provided. From the Power to Decide campaign, “More than 19 million women of reproductive age living in the US are in need of publicly funded contraception and live in contraceptive deserts. Living in a contraceptive desert means that they lack reasonable access in their county to a health center that offers the full range of contraceptive methods.” This statement became very alarming for us women to hear. Thus, sparked the accomplishment we hope to have once analyzing the United Nations data for contraceptive use in 2021.
## Project Objectives

Upon further research there is not a lot of provided contraceptive statistics for recent years. One of the latest CDC statistics is from several years ago, “ In 2015–2017, 64.9% of the 72.2 million women aged 15–49 in the United States were currently using contraception.” Our primary objective is wanting to explore the more recent data provided, however, from a global view. From the dataset, we would like to explore which country is ranked the highest in contraceptive use. Secondly, we want to explore that goal in pieces from the data set, by determining the highest contraceptive use by age, and to determine the most commonly used contraceptive method by gender.
With this information we hope to find the country with the most available contraceptive access. After determining the country, we hope that it could inform the US to learn about what that country in particular has done to reach its population needs for contraceptives. The data set contains survey-based estimates of the prevalence of contraceptives, this being an adequate indicator for measuring improvement to access reproductive health. As a result the analysis would aid in determining access to reproductive health across the countries listed in the data set. This in turn could benefit the United States in providing education, resources, funding etc to its own population from further learning from another country’s success on contraceptive availability. Ultimately this could impact and assist the 19 million women in the United States needing more publicly funded contraceptives.

## Data and data description
The data set was found through the United Nations population division. Through their information website there was a plethora of topic options categorized by year, including the dataset, and explanation summaries describing the reason behind the collection of the data and the information it provided.
https://www.un.org/development/desa/pd/data/world-contraceptive-use

## Methods
## Data Processing
For our project we expect to do considerable data cleanup and we will be working with two csv files. The first csv file separates contraceptives by method and the second csv categorizes contraceptives by marital status and age. Both of these datasets have a substantial number of missing values. In order to preserve significant data we will not remove any columns or rows with missing data. For the missing data we plan to convert all missing data to NA and exclude NA values during our analysis. There are also an assortment of data types we will be working with and need to change many columns to have uniform data types. Many of the columns in the dataset will not be useful for our analysis and need to be dropped. Some of the columns we plan to drop contain notes and data catalog information.
## Exploratory Analysis 
At this time we expect to make use of scatter plots with linear associations, where the x-axis will represent one variable, and the y-axis will represent the other. We plan to look at the association between country and modern method use and year and modern method use, as well as several other associations. There will also be an in-depth analysis on the United States contraceptive use. For this analysis we plan to use boxplots to show differences in male and female contraceptive method use. Correlation matrices will be made to find associations between contraceptive methods and country. The correlation matrices will be visualized with heatmaps and scatter plots. We also plan to create a multilinear regression model that will be used to predict modern contraceptive rates. This model will likely consist of variables such as country and year, but this is dependent on the initial findings.
## Analysis Methodology
Our analysis methodology is to focus on illustrating whether a clear relationship exists between the variables we have chosen. First, we will need to process and clean up the data to make it suitable for analysis. After this is complete, we will conduct an exploratory analysis to better understand the scope of our data. This will also include a quality assessment for us to determine the strengths and limitations of the data set.
We will then dive further into our analysis by comparing our selected We will then dive further into our analysis by comparing our selected variables against each other. Our proposed variables will be contraceptives compared against age groups, gender, countries etc. We will calculate multiple descriptive statistics. We will also need multiple graphs and visuals to thoroughly display all the information within the data set. Once we have conducted this initial analysis, we will be able to interpret if any visible significance exists. In order to further provide hard evidence of -or against- our hypothesis, we will conduct inferential statistical tests on our variables.

